Week of Sunday  25/2:
I have just gotten started with my collaborative project in a full capacity. The project in question is an AI content farming system which has primarily been developed by a fellow student: Josh Hales. I've spent a bit of time over the last several weeks, though in an increased capacity over the last few days, in order to get better acquainted with the project. Principally I've spent my time getting up to speed on Typescript, which constitutes the main language of the project. At present Josh has set aside a few issue tickets for both myself and another collaborating student to work on in order to ease ourselves into the project. Presently I'm looking to progress towards working on the project development itself and shift away from primarily handling issue tickets.

Week of Sunday 17/3:
As of Sunday the 24th, I have completed all of my self assigned issues. Though the issues in question were not super difficult to handle. Working through them gave me a good idea of how Josh has structured his project. More importantly one of the issues I worked on involved doing a bit of typescript. Though the process of researching the nature of my issue was a bit tedious, I gained a bit more insight into how to work with Typescript and by extension Java Script. Given the fact that I have completed all of my issues, I would like to see if I can move on to direct project development.

Week of Sunday 24/3:
One of my fellow collaborators was having issues on his end running npm install. As it turns out, the reason for this was due to my editing the os field in the package file. I changed the field from what it had been to the desired "win32" expressed in his error message, and included "win64" for good measure. I noticed, however, when I tried running the server, that the kernel seemed to make multiple attempts at installing the same set of packages before ultimately returning a set of errors. After some research and a bit of trial and error, I found that at least on my pc, using "npm install typescript" versus the default "npm install" seemed to successfully launch the server, which struck me as a bit strange.

Week of Sunday 31/3:
I had a little bit of a quiet week this week, seeing as I've completed all of the issues I set out to do. Given that Josh and our other group member, Patrick, have a list of their own tasks and there are no other issues I can assign myself, I have reached something of an impasse. In order to remedy this, I contacted Josh in order to see if there was anything else he would like me to do. In order to occupy myself this week, I did a bit of research into why my server only starts with "npm install typescript", but I couldn't find a solution that worked consistently, so I will continue to look for something that does.

Week of Sunday 7/4:
Patrick reached out through GitHub, stating that he was having trouble getting the server started again. Per his comment he was eventually able to start it by installing all of the dependencies individually. I told him that it would consistently start on my end with "npm install typescript", and recommended he attempt to use that. I had wondered if the issues starting the server may have been due to my fiddling with either the project's package file, or one of the other files in the directory. I checked through my prior edits, and found nothing that really should have caused the issue.

Week of Sunday 14/4:
In order to resolve the ongoing issue with getting the server started conventionally, I conducted some research and experimentation into getting the server working for Patrick, and eliminating the need for me to use "npm install typescript." In the process I learned a fair amount of how Node works especially with regards to the use of dependencies and how they may relate to the project. One of the main things I've noticed was that a number of the dependencies were depreciated, so I updated them accordingly. In the process of figuring out the issues both Patrick and I were having with Node, it appeared that the issue lay with the PATH variable. Upon further research and testing, it appeared that I needed to correct the PATH variable. In turn this corrected the ongoing issue with getting the server started conventionally. Given the time sink this problem has posed, it  has definitely taught me to check that the environment variable is as correct in the case an issue like this arises again.

